wiki/advantages-and-features.md, before:

---
title: Gridcoin Advantages & Features
layout: wiki
---


# Competitive Advantages 

### General Advantages

One of the main advantages of Gridcoin is that crunching ("mining")
does useful scientific research. Crunching helps science in areas like fighting 
diseases, finding asteroids, understanding subatomic particles, and more. In other
cryptocurrencies, mining doesn't produce any meaningful results. This means that 
regardless of the number of Gridcoin you earn, crunching alone achieves something 
useful.

While there are some other cryptocurrencies that try and reward scientific work,
they are limited in other various ways (most are heavily centralized among other 
things) see:
* [Comparison to CureCoin](#comparison-to-curecoin "wikilink")
* [Comparison to Obyte](#comparison-to-obyte "wikilink")
* [Comparison to Primecoin](#comparison-to-primecoin "wikilink")
* [Comparison to Tokens](#comparison-to-tokens "wikilink")

Additionally, Gridcoin's system of scrapers offers a scalable system that 
minimizes that amount of centralization. Scrapers get BOINC statistics 
(which determine rewards) from the projects and then compress them down to only 
the useful stats --- reducing data sent and stored. The wallet compares the 
data from each scraper against each other limiting the trust needed. Scrapers are 
run by several trusted members of the community located around the world. 
Read more about scrapers on the [Scraper Wiki Page](scraper "wikilink")

Further, Gridcoin has a [voting system](voting "wikilink") to help keep Gridcoin aligned with the
community and have meaningful discussions. Voting helps reduce conflicts by
not having unexpected changes and having a way to voice your opinion without 
needing to fork and split the community.


### Comparison to CureCoin
---
#### What Is CureCoin?
CureCoin is a cryptocurrency that aims to reward folding@home work


#### Why Gridcoin Is Different

* CureCoin only rewards folding@home --- Gridcoin rewards many projects   
    * CureCoin is designed only for folding@home
        * Only one project can be rewarded
        * Expansion requires rework of the system

    * Gridcoin is designed for BOINC projects
        * Rewards many existing projects and allows for rewarding newly created BOINC projects
        * More rewarded areas of study and more scientists running and starting projects. 

^
^

* CureCoin involves Proof of Work ---  Gridcoin uses Proof of Stake
    * More energy used in Proof of Work
        * Less used energy on scientific work in CureCoin
    
    * With Gridcoin more energy goes directly to science
        * Less energy used by Proof of Stake

^
^

* Gridcoin has more active development and community
    * Comparison of development activity in the last month:
        * [Gridcoin's here](https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Research/pulse/monthly) 
        * [CureCoin's here](https://github.com/cygnusxi/CurecoinSource/pulse/monthly)
 

### Comparison to Obyte 
---
#### What Is Obyte?
Obyte (formally Byteball) is a cryptocurrency that focuses on various different
aspects such as smart contracts. Among other bots, it has a bot that distributes out 
Bytes for work on [World Community Grid](https://www.worldcommunitygrid.org)
  
(note you can earn both Gridcoin and Bytes at the same time)


#### Why Gridcoin Is Different

* Obyte's main focus is different from Gridcoin 
    * Science aspect is a secondary or tertiary goal
        * Fewer Obytes sent to reward science and more goes to other distribution methods
    
    * For Gridcoin science is a primary goal
        * Larger percentage rewards science 

^
^

* Obyte's bots are heavily centralized 
    * Happening through one bot that could stop at any point
        * Funding to this bot comes entirely through a grant from a fund 
          controlled currently by 4 people

    * In Gridcoin, coins are distributed as new coins in the network not through a single fund or bot

^
^

* Obyte only rewards World Community Grid and no other BOINC project
    * On any other project, you can't earn Obytes for it

    * With Gridcoin there are {{ site.data.whitelist.projects.size }} projects you can contribute to

^
^


### Comparison to Primecoin
---
#### What Is Primecoin?
Primecoin is a cryptocurrency that uses a proof of work algorithm to 
find [Cunningham chains](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cunningham_chain) of prime numbers.


#### Why Gridcoin Is Different
* Primecoin can only find prime numbers and do no other scientific computation 
    * Limited by Proof of Work algorithm 
        * Any expansion of Primecoin to other types of computations would need
          to fit a Proof of Work algorithm. These algorithms need abilities that
          many scientific problems lack
            * See the challenges with even using primes in [Primecoin's whitepaper](https://primecoin.io/bin/primecoin-paper.pdf)

    * With Gridcoin more can be rewarded such as fighting disease, finding 
      asteroids, and many other types of science

^
^

*  Gridcoin has more active development and community
    * Comparison of development activity in the last month:
        * [Gridcoin's here](https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Research/pulse/monthly) 
        * [Primecoin's here](https://github.com/primecoin/primecoin/pulse/monthly)

### Comparison to Tokens
---
#### What Are These Tokens?
There are a variety of tokens that have tried/are trying to reward scientific 
work. 

#### Why Gridcoin Is Different
* Most of these tokens are heavily centralized 
    * One person/group decides how they should be distributed
        * Many of these tokens have suddenly stopped because the people behind 
          the projects decided to stop giving tokens out.

    * Gridcoin has systems in place to not give one person or group the 
      ability to control distribution. 
        * The [Scrapers](scraper "wikilink"), Proof of Stake, and more allow for 
          a much more decentralized system.

^
^

* New tokens lack an existing community
    * Have to spend even more time on marketing, outreach, getting more 
    developers, etc.
        * Have to overcome the chicken and egg problem for adoption

    * With Gridcoin, the community already exists
        * Able to help keep growth from it
        * Larger number of people to help with development, marketing, 
          site building, and more
          

^
^

* Tokens are limited in setting fees and changing other aspects
    * Tokens don't run on their own network --- limited by system of the
    network they run on
        * For instance for erc20 tokens on ethereum, to move tokens around you have 
          to spend ethereum to do it with the fees from the ethereum network itself

    * Gridcoin runs on its own network 
        * The fees can be changed if the community decides to 
        * Other network level changes have and can be made

Commit message:

Expand on federated oracle system, note that consensus is seperate from scraping

wiki/advantages-and-features.md, after:

---
title: Gridcoin Advantages & Features
layout: wiki
---


# Competitive Advantages 

### General Advantages

One of the main advantages of Gridcoin is that crunching ("mining")
does useful scientific research. Crunching helps science in areas like fighting 
diseases, finding asteroids, understanding subatomic particles, and more. In other
cryptocurrencies, mining doesn't produce any meaningful results. This means that 
regardless of the number of Gridcoin you earn, crunching alone achieves something 
useful.

While there are some other cryptocurrencies that try and reward scientific work,
they are limited in other various ways (most are heavily centralized among other 
things) see:
* [Comparison to CureCoin](#comparison-to-curecoin "wikilink")
* [Comparison to Obyte](#comparison-to-obyte "wikilink")
* [Comparison to Primecoin](#comparison-to-primecoin "wikilink")
* [Comparison to Tokens](#comparison-to-tokens "wikilink")

Additionally, Gridcoin's system of scrapers (often called "oracles") offers a scalable system that 
minimizes that amount of centralization. In fact, it was one of the first cryptocurrencies
to implement a federated oracle system. Scrapers get BOINC statistics 
(which determine rewards) from the projects and then compress them down to only 
the useful stats --- reducing data sent and stored. The wallet compares the 
data from each scraper against each other limiting the trust needed. Scrapers are 
run by several trusted members of the community located around the world. 
Read more about scrapers on the [Scraper Wiki Page](scraper "wikilink")

Scrapers and BOINC rewards are seperated from network consensus. Every Gridcoin wallet 
participates in network consensus, and it can proceed even without scrapers or any BOINC 
rewards whatsoever. Thousands of nodes staking with millions of coins are online every day 
participating in consensus, making Gridcoin more decentralized than many other cryptocurrencis.

Further, Gridcoin has a [voting system](voting "wikilink") to help keep Gridcoin aligned with the
community and have meaningful discussions. Voting helps reduce conflicts by
not having unexpected changes and having a way to voice your opinion without 
needing to fork and split the community.


### Comparison to CureCoin
---
#### What Is CureCoin?
CureCoin is a cryptocurrency that aims to reward folding@home work


#### Why Gridcoin Is Different

* CureCoin only rewards folding@home --- Gridcoin rewards many projects   
    * CureCoin is designed only for folding@home
        * Only one project can be rewarded
        * Expansion requires rework of the system

    * Gridcoin is designed for BOINC projects
        * Rewards many existing projects and allows for rewarding newly created BOINC projects
        * More rewarded areas of study and more scientists running and starting projects. 

^
^

* CureCoin involves Proof of Work ---  Gridcoin uses Proof of Stake
    * More energy used in Proof of Work
        * Less used energy on scientific work in CureCoin
    
    * With Gridcoin more energy goes directly to science
        * Less energy used by Proof of Stake

^
^

* Gridcoin has more active development and community
    * Comparison of development activity in the last month:
        * [Gridcoin's here](https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Research/pulse/monthly) 
        * [CureCoin's here](https://github.com/cygnusxi/CurecoinSource/pulse/monthly)
 

### Comparison to Obyte 
---
#### What Is Obyte?
Obyte (formally Byteball) is a cryptocurrency that focuses on various different
aspects such as smart contracts. Among other bots, it has a bot that distributes out 
Bytes for work on [World Community Grid](https://www.worldcommunitygrid.org)
  
(note you can earn both Gridcoin and Bytes at the same time)


#### Why Gridcoin Is Different

* Obyte's main focus is different from Gridcoin 
    * Science aspect is a secondary or tertiary goal
        * Fewer Obytes sent to reward science and more goes to other distribution methods
    
    * For Gridcoin science is a primary goal
        * Larger percentage rewards science 

^
^

* Obyte's bots are heavily centralized 
    * Happening through one bot that could stop at any point
        * Funding to this bot comes entirely through a grant from a fund 
          controlled currently by 4 people

    * In Gridcoin, coins are distributed as new coins in the network not through a single fund or bot

^
^

* Obyte only rewards World Community Grid and no other BOINC project
    * On any other project, you can't earn Obytes for it

    * With Gridcoin there are {{ site.data.whitelist.projects.size }} projects you can contribute to

^
^


### Comparison to Primecoin
---
#### What Is Primecoin?
Primecoin is a cryptocurrency that uses a proof of work algorithm to 
find [Cunningham chains](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cunningham_chain) of prime numbers.


#### Why Gridcoin Is Different
* Primecoin can only find prime numbers and do no other scientific computation 
    * Limited by Proof of Work algorithm 
        * Any expansion of Primecoin to other types of computations would need
          to fit a Proof of Work algorithm. These algorithms need abilities that
          many scientific problems lack
            * See the challenges with even using primes in [Primecoin's whitepaper](https://primecoin.io/bin/primecoin-paper.pdf)

    * With Gridcoin more can be rewarded such as fighting disease, finding 
      asteroids, and many other types of science

^
^

*  Gridcoin has more active development and community
    * Comparison of development activity in the last month:
        * [Gridcoin's here](https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Research/pulse/monthly) 
        * [Primecoin's here](https://github.com/primecoin/primecoin/pulse/monthly)

### Comparison to Tokens
---
#### What Are These Tokens?
There are a variety of tokens that have tried/are trying to reward scientific 
work. 

#### Why Gridcoin Is Different
* Most of these tokens are heavily centralized 
    * One person/group decides how they should be distributed
        * Many of these tokens have suddenly stopped because the people behind 
          the projects decided to stop giving tokens out.

    * Gridcoin has systems in place to not give one person or group the 
      ability to control distribution. 
        * The [Scrapers](scraper "wikilink"), Proof of Stake, and more allow for 
          a much more decentralized system.

^
^

* New tokens lack an existing community
    * Have to spend even more time on marketing, outreach, getting more 
    developers, etc.
        * Have to overcome the chicken and egg problem for adoption

    * With Gridcoin, the community already exists
        * Able to help keep growth from it
        * Larger number of people to help with development, marketing, 
          site building, and more
          

^
^

* Tokens are limited in setting fees and changing other aspects
    * Tokens don't run on their own network --- limited by system of the
    network they run on
        * For instance for erc20 tokens on ethereum, to move tokens around you have 
          to spend ethereum to do it with the fees from the ethereum network itself

    * Gridcoin runs on its own network 
        * The fees can be changed if the community decides to 
        * Other network level changes have and can be made
