wiki/advantages&features.md, before:

---
title: Gridcoin Advantages & Features
layout: wiki
---


# Competitive Advantages 

### General Advantages

One of the main advantages to Gridcoin is that crunching ("mining")
does useful scientific research. Crunching helps science in areas like fighting 
diseases, finding asteroids, understanding subatomic particles, and more. In other
cryptocurrencies, mining doesn't produce any meaningful results. This means that 
regardless of the number of Gridcoin you earn, crunching alone achieve something 
useful.

While there are some other cryptocurrencies that try and reward scientific work,
they are limited in other various ways (most are heavily centralized among other 
things) see:
* [Comparison to CureCoin](#comparison-to-curecoin)
* [Comparison to Byteball](#comparision-to-byteball)
* [Comparison to PrimeCoin](#comparison-to-primecoin)
* [Comparison to Tokens](#comparison-to-tokens)

Additionally, Gridcoin's system of scrapers offers a scalable system that 
minimizes that amount of centralization. Scrapers get BOINC statistics 
(which determine rewards) from the projects and then compress them down to only 
the useful stats --- reducing data sent and stored. The also wallet compares the 
data from each scraper against each other limiting the trust needed. Scrapers are 
run by several trusted members of the community located around the world. 
Read more about scrapers on the [Scraper Wiki Page](Scraper "wikilink")

Further, Gridcoin has a voting system to help keep Gridcoin aligned with the
community and have meaningful discussions. Voting help reduce conflicts by
not having unexpected changes and having a way to voice your opinion without 
needing to fork and split the community.


### Comparison to CureCoin
---
#### What's CureCoin?
CureCoin is a cryptocurrency that aims to reward folding@home work


#### Why's Gridcoin Different?
One advantage is how Gridcoin rewards many different projects while CureCoin only 
rewards folding@home and no other project. Gridcoin is designed around rewarding 
BOINC projects which allows it to reward many existing and any newly created BOINC
projects instead of just one project (folding@home) that doesn't use BOINC. This 
allows for more areas of study rewarded and more scientists running 
and starting projects. 

Secondly, CureCoin's system uses Proof of Work which makes it use much more power 
and energy on the network instead of on the Science. Gridcoin uses Proof of Stake
which is much more energy efficient and makes the vast majority of the computation 
involved with Gridcoin useful scientific work.

Third, Gridcoin has a more active development and community. For comparison
[here](https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Research/pulse/monthly) 
is Gridcoin's development activity in the last month and [here](https://github.com/cygnusxi/CurecoinSource/pulse/monthly)
is CureCoin's. 

### Comparison to Byteball

### Comparison to Tokens

Commit message:

Create OBytes Section also switch to newer OBytes name from byteball

wiki/advantages&features.md, after:

---
title: Gridcoin Advantages & Features
layout: wiki
---


# Competitive Advantages 

### General Advantages

One of the main advantages to Gridcoin is that crunching ("mining")
does useful scientific research. Crunching helps science in areas like fighting 
diseases, finding asteroids, understanding subatomic particles, and more. In other
cryptocurrencies, mining doesn't produce any meaningful results. This means that 
regardless of the number of Gridcoin you earn, crunching alone achieve something 
useful.

While there are some other cryptocurrencies that try and reward scientific work,
they are limited in other various ways (most are heavily centralized among other 
things) see:
* [Comparison to CureCoin](#comparison-to-curecoin)
* [Comparison to OByte](#comparision-to-obyte)
* [Comparison to PrimeCoin](#comparison-to-primecoin)
* [Comparison to Tokens](#comparison-to-tokens)

Additionally, Gridcoin's system of scrapers offers a scalable system that 
minimizes that amount of centralization. Scrapers get BOINC statistics 
(which determine rewards) from the projects and then compress them down to only 
the useful stats --- reducing data sent and stored. The also wallet compares the 
data from each scraper against each other limiting the trust needed. Scrapers are 
run by several trusted members of the community located around the world. 
Read more about scrapers on the [Scraper Wiki Page](Scraper "wikilink")

Further, Gridcoin has a voting system to help keep Gridcoin aligned with the
community and have meaningful discussions. Voting help reduce conflicts by
not having unexpected changes and having a way to voice your opinion without 
needing to fork and split the community.


### Comparison to CureCoin
---
#### What's CureCoin?
CureCoin is a cryptocurrency that aims to reward folding@home work


#### Why's Gridcoin Different?
One advantage is how Gridcoin rewards many different projects while CureCoin only 
rewards folding@home and no other project. Gridcoin is designed around rewarding 
BOINC projects which allows it to reward many existing and any newly created BOINC
projects instead of just one project (folding@home) that doesn't use BOINC. This 
allows for more areas of study rewarded and more scientists running 
and starting projects. 

Secondly, CureCoin's system uses Proof of Work which makes it use much more power 
and energy on the network instead of on the Science. Gridcoin uses Proof of Stake
which is much more energy efficient and makes the vast majority of the computation 
involved with Gridcoin useful scientific work.

Third, Gridcoin has a more active development and community. For comparison
[here](https://github.com/gridcoin-community/Gridcoin-Research/pulse/monthly) 
is Gridcoin's development activity in the last month and [here](https://github.com/cygnusxi/CurecoinSource/pulse/monthly)
is CureCoin's. 

### Comparison to OByte 
---
#### What's OByte?
Obyte (formally byteball) is a cryptocurrency that focuses on various different 
aspects such as smart contracts. Among other bots, it has a bot that distributes out 
OBytes for work on [World Community Grid](https://www.worldcommunitygrid.org)
  
(note you can earn both Gridcoin and OBytes at the same time)


#### Why's Gridcoin Different?
OByte's main focus is different from Gridcoin. The science aspect is a secondary
or tertiary goal for the project. Because of this, a much smaller percentage of 
coins are sent for science and a higher percentage goes to other distribution 
methods. 

Further, for the bot itself, it only rewards World Community Grid and no other 
BOINC project. This means if you want to work on any other project, you can't
earn OBytes for it. With Gridcoin there is a list of 18 project you can contribute 
to (as of 2020-08-08)

The system is heavily centralized by happening through one bot that could stop 
at any point. The funding to this bot comes entirely through a grant from a fund 
controlled currently by 4 people, but in Gridcoin, coins are distributed 
as the new coins in the network and not through a single fund or bot at all.

### Comparison to Tokens
